# CS-340-Client-Server-Development-

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
Programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable are difficult to create initially. It requires experience and time to develope maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs. It all begins with having a clean and readable documentation of the developers work. Motes integrated within the code will allow users to understand what the functionality is for each line of code/method. Another important factor to ensure that a program contains the attributes listed in the question above is testing the program. Ensuring that the code devveloped is working as intended is highly important. Programs have not and will never be labaled as complete for a porject if they are not tested becuase they will lead to unforseen vulnerabilities and errors that will prevent the program function. Testing and readibility/documentation is what I implemented in project one. Project one required the students to created CRUD functions that were later tested in JupyterNotebook. Testing needs to be done constantly to prevent builiding a program on code that contains errors. Constant testing will allow the developer to find and fix mistakes rapidly instead of strugguling to find errors after creating the entire program. After testing the code I was able to document the outcome to use as a refrence and inform any reader what the purpose and outcome is of the code. The benefit of testing and documeting results is very valuable and beneficial. It will save time and create allow the developer to maintain a record of their work to view if they encounter a similar project or error that the developer has fixed. 

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
Computer scninetist encouter many different problems, but they share documentation of how to overcome those problems. There are many resources that assis computer scientist such as Github and StackOverFlow. These platorms allow computer scientits to post questions about their problems and find solutions from other users who have posted a similar issue they are facing. When I face an obstacle I always look at Github and StackOverFlow first unless I am looking to a specific function to call from the language I am coding in. If I am intrested in learning more about a function I look into the langauges/library website to find out more on how to call/use functions. Throughout the development of the dashboard requirements I utilized a video provided by my insturctor in which he went over the requirements for the dashbaord on answered questions/concerns from students. Once I understood the functionality of the dashboard I read through the resources to understand the implementation of the code into the program to create the dashboards requirements. Gladly, the dashboard requirements were given to us a milestone to get familiar with using HTML to create the dasboard and develop a Geolocation map. This approach enabled me to use my previous work as a guidline on how to create a dashboard and build on my prevous work to develop what the project required. In the future I would ask the project manager for more information about what the client would like the dashboard to contain. In this project, the lauyout of the dashboard was clear but not spefic. It did not contain information as to how many documents the user should be able to read once the data is filtered. This is highly important to establish during the initial phases of a project to allow developers to understand what is expected from the program once it is completed. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientist utilize and create tools for the public to make the users tasks simpler and easier to complete. Lets take as an example a phone. A cell phone contains different applications within it to perform different tasks such as call, text, and email other users. This has established a faster form of communiction for everyone which in return allows projects to get completed quicker. This project is a great example of what computer scientist can create. Grazioso company has access to data from local shelters that need to be read to find dogs that are suited to undergo rescue training. Without the program that I created it would take hours to find a dog that meets their requirments to train. Having data be filtered with a click of mouse saves time and money becuase it allows the companies resources to be used elswhere instead of having them look for potential dogs to train. 
